Regional Computer Recycling  Recovery Tour
##########################################
:date: 2010-12-28 06:46
:author: antitree
:category: News
:slug: regional-computer-recycling-recovery-tour
:status: published

|Regional Computer Recycling & Recovery|

Have you ever wanted to watch a hard drive get shredded in seconds, see
a box of RAM that was 800 pounds, or wander through a 100,000 square
foot grave yard of electronics? So did we, and our tour of Regional
Computer Recycling and Recovery was just that. RCR&R is one of the major
electronics recyclers in the Rochester area, and we were lucky enough to
get a tour of their facilities. They outlined the process from beginning
to end of how a computer is received, processed, parted out, and
eventually recycled.

|rotating knives sign|

A group of us were guided around the RCR&R facility after learning about
the organization. Vice president Charlie McKernen teamed up with client
service representative Tom Smith to show us the facility, answer our
questions, and keep us on track when our attention strayed to the many
items sitting on the giant shelves. One of the first stops was a hard
drive shredder which chopped through the devices like butter, leaving
just a pile of scraps after a few sparks. We walked by workers parting
out the computers, placing each into a corresponding box that would
eventually be shipped out for recycling by a facility specifically
designed to process that part. Charlie was able to easily answer our
questions on degaussing and secure hard drive wiping methods, and they
all seemed to be up to speed on the latest compliance requirements and
best practices when it came to security.

The tour happened on the same day that the Democrat and Chronicle
published `an
article <http://www.democratandchronicle.com/article/20101227/NEWS01/12270323/1002/NEWS/Effort-aims-to-cut-waste-electronics>`__
discussing a New York State law touting a state wide, free e-waste
recycling program. Passed in May, the law will make electronics
manufacturers responsible for the waste generated when a computer is
recycled. Current NYS law allows computers to be thrown out as part of
your regular trash, leaking contaminants into the ground.
Hazardous metals like lead and mercury, and the chemicals that make
plastics flame retardant can cause damage to the environment. The new
law aims to get consumers recycling their old electronics by offsetting
the cost back to the manufacturers.

You can visit the RCR&R `website <http://www.ewaste.com>`__ for more
information about their facility and services, and be sure to check out
their `Electronics Cafe <http://stores.ebay.com/Electronics-Cafe>`__
eBay store if you're interested in seeing all of the fun stuff they have
for sale.

EDIT: Their facility is 100,000 sqft in Victor and their Central Ave.
location is 20,000 sqft.

.. |Regional Computer Recycling & Recovery| image:: http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/rcrr.jpg
   :class: right
.. |rotating knives sign| image:: http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/rotatingknivessm-297x300.jpg
   :class: photo left

