Anniversary Achievement Unlocked
================================

date
:   2010-12-16 20:20

author
:   antitree

category
:   News

slug
:   anniversary-achievement-unlocked

status
:   published

Last Saturday, Interlock celebrated its one year anniversary.  Although
this wasn't the original date of our inception, it was the agreed upon
time to meet, discuss what we did the year before, announce plans for
the year after, decide upon the budget, and share ideas that could help
improve Interlock as a whole.

Our first year was packed with tasks necessary for putting together a
hackerspace from the ground up.  Starting out, we were a group of people
meeting in a coffee shop with an idea and we quickly transitioned into
getting a space to call home, incorporating the organization and
designing the bylaws for the group.  We worked with community leaders to
attend events like Barcamp Rochester and partnered up with our friends
at CoWorking Rochester for lightning talks. And in between all of that,
we tried to make time for our personal projects.

It was fun to hear what members had been working on in the space this
year. Arduinos, Apple 2c+ hacking, knitting, networking, photography,
infosec, robotics, ham radio, makerbot plans, virtualization, lock
picking, phone systems, classes, aerial photography, are just a few of
the projects we worked on.

This coming year, we have some exciting new ideas for everyone  and the
members have even more ideas for their own projects.  Some of those
ideas are about improving Interlock for the public and our community
like offering different membership options.  We're also working on ideas
for a project we can work on as a group.

Finally as part of our business planning, we reviewed our financial
situation and approved a budget.  You can take a look at our costs and
where the money goes from 2010 below.

[![Financial numbers for
2010](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2010_expenses-300x124.png)](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2010_expenses.png)

A thanks goes out to all of our members and friends who donate their
time, money, and ideas to our cause.  We seriously couldn't have done it
without you.
