Announcing Our New Board of Directors
=====================================

date
:   2014-12-08 14:55

author
:   interlockroc

category
:   Events, News

slug
:   announcing-our-new-board-of-directors

status
:   published

Every year, we have an annual meeting to hang out, throw a party, and
elect a new board of directors based on our company
[bylaws](http://wiki.interlockroc.org/wiki/index.php/Bylaws). We are
happy to announce a lot of new faces ready to bring some ideas to the
space.

Our new president, [Scott Lawrence](https://twitter.com/yorgle) brings
his background in electronics, software development, antique computer
hardware, electronic reverse engineering, and Legos to the position.
Carl Schmidtmann will complete a second term as Vice President providing
his knowledge of numerous subjects including super computers, Linux,
electronics and all kinds of subjects. A relatively new member, Joe Hale
is welcomed in as our Secretary.  Bill Horst-Kotter will be representing
the "Member at Large" position.

We are especially excited about our new treasurer, [Ryan
Tucker](https://twitter.com/hoopycat), as he has been investing time
into  improving our financial situation, helping to make it easier to
take in donations as a newly 501c3, and making sure that money is being
spent wisely. As a member, Ryan will continue to leak out his knowledge
related to RF, software-defined radios, software development,
electronics, networking, and all kinds of interesting subjects we have
yet to discover.

We look forward to the next generation of Interlock Rochester's board of
directors.
