Arduino Day 2015 - Schedule
===========================

date
:   2015-03-26 21:55

author
:   BleuLlama

category
:   Uncategorized

slug
:   arduino-day-2015-schedule

status
:   published

[![Screenshot 2015-03-26
21.54.10](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/Screenshot-2015-03-26-21.54.10-300x112.png)](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/Screenshot-2015-03-26-21.54.10.png)

We're still working through exactly what will be presented on Saturday
for Arduino Day, but here's a rough idea... We can always adjust content
based on the attending audience... And if more people show up in the
afternoon or evening, we can always run through things again. We're
going to play this a lot by-ear.

***[More about Arduino Day can be found
here...](http://day.arduino.cc)***

We will be running an Arduino project challenge contest! Using an
Arduino (or related micro), along with any resources and tools in the
Interlock space, and/or materials you bring yourself, what cool thing
can you build?  Some old hardware (printers, scanners, misc parts) will
be available to take apart... Judging will happen at 9:30, points will
be awarded for usefulness, niftiness, artistic quality, and technical
depth...   The winner(s) will get something, to be determined. ;)

Throughout the day, we'll have the doors open for all who want to visit
and participate, or just check us and our space out. We'll be around all
day to help you with your Arduino project, or get help from you on our
projects! ;)

* * * * *

 

10:00 am - Doors open, Coffee will be available, get settled in, get to
know each other. Project workshop time as well (throughout the day)

11:00 am - Intro to Arduino - What it is, how to use it, some basic
interfacing with buttons and lights.

Noon - Lunch!  Sub sandwiches and beverages will be available.

1:00 pm - Project Circus - show off your project.  casual presentations.

2:00 pm - Arduino Communications - How to get your computer to talk with
the Ardy, and get them to talk with devices.

3:00 pm - Analog interfacing with Alex - how to work with other kinds of
peripherals

4:00 pm -  Project Circus

5:00 pm - Dinner! Pizza and beverages will be available.

6:00 pm - Workshop Time (or TBD)

7:00 pm - Workshop Time (or TBD)

8:00 pm - Workshop Time (or TBD)

9:00 pm - Project Challenge voting! (at 9:30)

10:00 pm - End of the event.  We'll probably stick around for a while
anyway.

* * * * *

[You can RSVP over on the Meetup page for this
event...](http://www.meetup.com/Interlock-Rochester-Hackerspace/events/220785478/?a=ra1_te)

 
