Dashing through the thermoplastic
=================================

date
:   2011-12-01 00:09

author
:   dzho

category
:   Projects

tags
:   holiday, material, plastic, repair

slug
:   dashing-through-the-thermoplastic-2

status
:   published

It's that time of the year, again, when families across the country are
messing with long strings of electrical wire, crazy light bulbs, and
LEDs plus all sorts of weird objects made of ceramic, glass, metal or
plastic. I was inspired to offset some of my Grinchiness by using our
put-up-the-decorations day as another opportunity to use one of my new
favorite materials.

Our Christmas tree stand has this nifty tiered collection of what are,
essentially, big set screws, designed to hold the trunk of the tree
upright in the center of the tree stand. Problem is, over time we've
lost the little plastic caps from the trunk end of several of the set
screws. This means the set screws tear up the bark of the tree trunk
more quickly, and dig more easily into the trunk of the tree.

That can't be good.

![image0](http://deejoe.etrumeus.com/interlock/PCL-tree-stand/10-PCL-tree-stand-missing-caps-sxga.jpg)

Also, another of our tree stands, smaller, with only one tier of set
screws, has a nice little conical stand-off built into the bottom of the
stand, to help keep the bottom of the tree off the bottom of the stand.
That way water can get into the bottom and up through the tree. The
larger stand that we like to use, with two tiers of set screws, has no
such stand-off.

So, I made little caps out of
[PCL](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polycaprolactone)
([polycaprolactone](http://reprap.org/wiki/Polycaprolactone), aka
[Shapelock](http://www.makershed.com/product_p/mkshl1.htm) aka [Friendly
Plastic](http://www.amaco.com/shop/category-85-friendly-plastic-modeling-material.html),
about which perhaps more some other time) to replace the missing ones.

![image1](http://deejoe.etrumeus.com/interlock/PCL-tree-stand/25-PCL-tree-stand-old-and-new-caps-sxga.jpg)

I made a mold out of some [polymer
clay](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polymer_clay) using the OEM green cap
and made one PCL cap with the mold. Using polymer clay this way is
something I've been meaning to try. Sad to say, that approach still
needs a little work--I had a lot of trouble with the PCL locking into
small imperfections in the mold. The rest of the replacement caps I made
by just pressing warm PCL around the ends of the set screws, free form,
and then letting them cool and harden in place.

I also made a little PCL stand-off to put in the bottom of the tree,
with a little "spider" consisting of two crossed PCL rods to help keep
it near the center of the bottom of the well of the stand.

![image2](http://deejoe.etrumeus.com/interlock/PCL-tree-stand/30-PCL-tree-stand-standoff-sxga.jpg)

Here they are, all together:

![image3](http://deejoe.etrumeus.com/interlock/PCL-tree-stand/40-PCL-tree-stand-with-new-parts-sxga.jpg)

The caps seem to have worked pretty well. The spider kept slipping out
of place as I was trying to get the stand fit onto the tree. Next year
maybe I'll try putting something soft and sticky on the ends to help
with more of a press-fit, either some sort of generic silicone caulk or
some [Sugru](http://sugru.com/) or something.
