Filament Nudger for 3Doodler
============================

date
:   2014-05-09 16:05

author
:   MacGyvrBot

category
:   Hardware, Projects

tags
:   3d printer, 3D Printing, 3Doodler, Ease of use, Extruder jams

slug
:   filament-nudger-for-3doodler

status
:   published

For various reasons, the 3Doodler sometimes stops extruding. This can
happen with any 3D Printer. However, the 3Doodler is exceptionally easy
to get going again by giving the filament a gentle nudge. The Filament
Nudger is a hack to reduce the number of times the 3Doodler stalls or
jams by providing a continuously nudging force on the filament.

[caption id="attachment\_1658" align="aligncenter" width="518"]![Nudger
without
handle](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Nudger-without-handle.jpg)
3Doodler with Filament Nudger[/caption]

The Nudger works with or without the Phaser Handle described in a
previous blog : [How to 3D-print a Handle and Trigger for the 3Doodler
(and to make it look like a Phaser)
 ](http://www.interlockroc.org/2014/03/10/how-to-3d-print-a-handle-and-trigger-for-the-3doodler-and-to-make-it-look-like-a-phaser/%20) 
If you have access to a 3D printer, you can build a Nudger yourself by
downloading these files on
[Thingiverse](http://www.thingiverse.com/thing:322553/#files).

[caption id="attachment\_1659" align="aligncenter" width="518"]![With
handle](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/With-handle.jpg)
3Doodler with Phaser Handle and Filament Nudger[/caption]

The automatic Filament Nudger was designed to be powered by a pair of
rubber bands,  and it is cocked by pulling back on the Filament Grabber
mechanism.

[caption id="attachment\_1654" align="aligncenter" width="518"]![Cocking
the
Nudger](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Cocking-the-Nudger.png)
Cocking the Filament Nudger[/caption]

The Grabber works like a 1-way clutch, pulling the filament toward the
3Doodler but releasing the filament when pulled in the other direction
or when the Grabber bumps the back of the 3Doodler. The force applied by
the rubber bands is effective in keeping the extruder going, but is not
strong enough to prevent the filament retraction which conveniently
keeps the 3Doodler from oozing between extrusions like a glue gun does.

[caption id="attachment\_1656" align="aligncenter"
width="518"]![Filament Nudger works with filament provided by
3Doodler](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Filament-Nudger-works-with-filament-provided-by-3Doodler.jpg)
Filament Nudger works with filament provided by 3Doodler[/caption]

When used with the filament sticks provided by 3Doodler, the Filament
Nudger has the benefits of (1) reducing extruder stalls and also (2) it
lets you install a new stick any time after the trailing end of a stick
disappears into the 3Doodler. Without the Nudger, a new stick may fall
out when the 3Doodler is tipped upward before the new stick is engaged,
and this can be annoying.

[caption id="attachment\_1655" align="aligncenter"
width="518"]![Filament Nudger also works with longer 3mm
filament](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Filament-Nudger-also-works-with-longer-3mm-filament.jpg)
Filament Nudger also works with longer 3mm filament[/caption]

With the Filament Nudger as a pre-feeder, Skip has been successfully
using the same coiled filament that is used by MacGyvrBot (and other 3D
printers). Warning: the use of such materials is not recommended by
3Doodler, and using any unauthorized materials will void the 3Doodler
warranty!

 \**Instructions:*\*

![Hinge
pin](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Hinge-pin.png)

 

1

Create a hinge pin for the Grabber with small piece of filament, and put
button heads on the pin with the 3Doodler.

 

 

 

![2 Zip-tie
Frame](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/2-Zip-tie-Frame.png)

 

2

Attach the Frame to the 3Doodler with a zip-tie.

 

 

 

 

![3 Insert
Skewers](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/3-Insert-Skewers.png)

 

 

3

Cut (2) 1/8 inch bamboo skewers to 7 inch lengths and insert them into
the Frame (drilling out the holes if they are too tight, locking them in
with small nails if they are too loose).

 

 

 

![4 Insert
Grabber](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/4-Insert-Grabber.png)

 

4

Insert the Grabber onto the filament and skewers as shown.

 

 

 

 

 

![5 Insert Filament
Guide](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/5-Insert-Filament-Guide.png)

 

 

5

Insert Filament Guide over skewers and filament as shown (drilling out
the holes if they are too tight, locking them in with small nails if
they are too loose).

 

 

 

![6 Hook rubber
bands](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/6-Hook-rubber-bands.png)

 

 

6

Hook rubber bands over Grabber and attach them to Frame as shown.

 

 

 

 In our next post we will show how to use the 3Doodler to hack up
accessories for itself!

Stay tuned!

 
