Fixing A Tablet...
==================

date
:   2015-04-08 09:38

author
:   BleuLlama

category
:   Hardware

slug
:   fixing-a-tablet

status
:   published

One of my co-workers gave me his Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 to fix.
 Apparently, something went bad with the USB connector, and his kid was
very persistent with trying to get the charging cable into it, and
completely mangled the connector.  Then he tried to fix it too, which
made things worse... including chewing up the outer frame.  He ordered a
replacement USB connector and asked if I could fix it.  It sounded like
a fun project so.. sure!

He had already popped the back off at some point, so I just popped it
back off again.  The USB port had to be desoldered from the board.
 Little did I know that it also was glued down.  That made it a bit
difficult to remove from the board

[![2015-04-07
20.49.45](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/2015-04-07-20.49.45-300x225.jpg)](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/CCCTy4iWAAMfjrm.jpg)

With a lot of extra solder, and some leverage with the tweezers, I did
manage to get it off.  Some work with the vacuum pump desolderer, some
desoldering braid, and cleanup with rubbing alcohol and the mainboard
was ready for the replacement part.  (Sharpie for scale)

[![2015-04-07
21.25.38](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/2015-04-07-21.25.38-300x225.jpg)](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/2015-04-07-21.25.38.jpg)

Getting it lined up so that all of the pads matched up and that the
connector's opening would line up with the case was a little bit tricky.
 I soldered this one on with too-large of a tip by doing the "flooding
the pads" method. Then excess solder was removed with some braid.

 

[![2015-04-07
21.43.35](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/2015-04-07-21.43.35-225x300.jpg)](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/2015-04-07-21.43.35.jpg)

 

 

Before I fully reassembled it, I tried out the jack, and it worked! I
filed down and smoothed out the edge to remove any broken frame bits, to
fix the damage done the first time it was opened, and powered it on.

[![CCCTy4iWAAMfjrm](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/CCCTy4iWAAMfjrm-300x225.jpg)](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/2015-04-07-21.48.01.jpg)The
best way to test it, and the best way to go a bit insane is to get a
chorus of Talking Ginger and other talking animals going... They were
repeating each other, degrading the sound more and more with each
repetition... We were pretty punchy at the end of the evening...

 
