Interlock goes to Iceland to meet Hakkavélin
============================================

date
:   2015-01-07 10:47

author
:   interlockroc

category
:   News

slug
:   interlock-goes-to-iceland-to-meet-hakkavelin

status
:   published

When we travel, it's common for hackerspace members to reach out to
other hackerspaces located in our destinations. It's a great way to meet
the locals, share ideas, and learn how other people run a hackerspace.
Interlock has entertained guests from all over. Sometimes travelers will
email us saying they are doing a tour of hackerspaces in the region and
wanted to stop in for a night. When we're available, we're happy to
entertain at the space and even take them out for a drink. I remember
one visit from a group travelling first to New York City ([NYC
Resistor](http://www.nycresistor.com/), [Alpha One
Labs](http://www.alphaonelabs.com/)), going up through Syracuse ([SIG
315](http://sig315.org/)), to Rochester ([Interlock](#)) and ending up
in Toronto ([Hacklab](https://hacklab.to/)). Our members have visited
spaces all over the country; Florida, Texas, California, North Carolina,
and Washington DC are a few that I can remember. There is even a
[hackerspace passport](https://www.noisebridge.net/wiki/passport) that
Noisebridge started where you can get it stamped at the various
hackerspaces that you visit.

Hakkavélin[![20141230\_205213](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/01/20141230_205213-168x300.jpg)](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/01/20141230_205213.jpg)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Myself and another member recently visited Iceland for New Years for
just over a week and the day after we landed, we jumped on the
[Hakkavélin](http://hakkavelin.is/) IRC channel to reach out to see when
open hours were and if we could arrange a visit. While the space wasn't
opened due to the holidays, Sigurður óskarsson was kind enough to meet
us at the hackerspace to take us out to a cafe in town. We talked shop a
bit, discussing projects people were working on and history of each
others' spaces, along with operational details like how they handled
membership and how much they charged.

We learned about their [door
system](http://hakkavelin.is/post/74269934436/the-evolutionary-stages-of-the-door-bot) which
consisted of a full computer sitting outside of the space controlling
the door lock. In order to get in, you have to figure out how to use the
console in a hackery way. As I understand it, there's also an IRC bot
which controls this door if you message the right user. Located inside
the [University of
Reykjavik](http://www.openstreetmap.org/#map=16/64.1243/-21.9251), the
group is just outside of the downtown area in South Reykjavik. With only
four hours of light this time of year, I wasn't able to get a good look
at the university but the buildings I saw were pretty with huge glass
walls.

If you have never considered looking up a local hackerspace on your
vacation or business trip, I would strongly recommend you consider it
next time. It's a great way to meet like-minded folk in different
locations.
