Keeping it together with Trello
===============================

date
:   2014-12-15 11:54

author
:   rtucker

category
:   News, Projects

slug
:   keeping-it-together-with-trello

status
:   published

At our December monthly meeting, Joe Hale demonstrated
[Trello](https://trello.com/), a web-based productivity system based on
the supply-chain management concept of
[*kanban*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kanban).  A Trello board is
made of "lists" of self-contained "cards." Each card should have all of
the information needed to take action, such as to-do checklists, photos,
links to documentation, etc.  The state of the card is indicated by the
name of its list ("Ideas", "Active", "Need Help", etc).  The "goal" is
for the cards to move from left to right as ideas progress from vague
concepts to completed projects.

[caption id="attachment\_1706" align="alignnone" width="300"][![Trello
at a glance: here's some of our ideas and active
projects.](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/12/trello-screenshot-300x225.png)](http://www.interlockroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/12/trello-screenshot.png)
Trello at a glance: here's some of our ideas and active
projects.[/caption]

It's important for all of us to know what projects are underway at
Interlock.  Many of us have particular
[skills](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L4ttVP2cyK4) or
[equipment](https://www.reddit.com/r/vxjunkies) that could help a
project move along, or we might simply be interested in learning more by
collaborating.  While it's great to get together and talk about plans in
person each month, it's impossible to get all of us together at the same
time with any regularity, and sometimes inspiration hits at weird times.
 Having an easy mechanism to jot down ideas, track the progress of
projects, and collaborate with others is helping us be more effective
and creative already, and the detailed records of a project evolving
should help us
[blog](https://trello.com/c/wMeVgm6Y/49-trello-blog-post) with more
regularly!

Please feel free to [browse our public projects
board](https://trello.com/b/dsfhrqxR/projects) to see what we're up to
between our monthly meetings.  If you're an Interlock member and would
like access, create a Trello account and then let Joe or another board
member know your username.
