new spaces galore
=================

date
:   2013-02-09 10:58

author
:   dzho

category
:   Events, News

tags
:   makerspace, visitor

slug
:   new-spaces-galore

status
:   published

Just thought I'd take some time to catch us all up on several recent
developments beyond Interlock, but somewhat local, that are relevant to
our interests.

![Rochester Brainery
logo](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/brainery-third.png)

Last month, I read in the [local
paper](http://www.democratandchronicle.com/article/20130109/HER_GETTING_AHEAD/301090001/Rochester-Brainery)
of the formation of [the Rochester
Brainery](http://rochesterbrainery.com/), opening early next month in
the Village Gate, across the Goodman Street railyard from us here at
Interlock and our neighbors at [the
Hungerford](http://thehungerford.com/).

![Smokestack Coworking
logo](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/smokestackcowork.png)

We'll always owe a debt to Dave at [Coworking
Rochester](http://www.coworkingrochester.com/) for helping us get
started by offering space and moral support during some of our bigger
early organizational meetings, before we settled on a space of our own
to rent. Still, it's interesting to see people coming together in
another coworking space in town, [Smokestack
Coworking](http://smokestackcowork.com/), [High
Falls](http://rocwiki.org/High_Falls) area.

Here's hoping they both thrive and complement each other.

![Ithaca Generator
logo](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/robotic-logo-like2.png)

Last month we received a visitor from Ithaca, Jos√©, who traveled up with
a couple of friends maybe to join what he thought at the time was the
closest hackerspace to him. I had a great time talking with him, so it
was a little bittersweet to tell him [Ithaca
Generator](http://ithacagenerator.org/) has recently gotten off to what
looks like a good start and might just meet his needs without the long
drive.

I wasn't able to make it to their [open
house](http://ithacagenerator.org/events/open-house/) back in December.
But, I\
did visit with some family over the holidays who were able to go and got
to see the [party
favors](http://www.evilmadscientist.com/2008/edge-lit-holiday-cards/)
they made at the open house. Fun. Look like good things are in store for
the hands-on, DIY hacker and maker community in Ithaca.

![Buffalo Labs
logo](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/buffalo-lab.png)

We've also been having a friend, Joe, make the trip from Niagara Falls
every so often to visit, which has had us asking how things are going at
[Buffalo Lab](http://www.buffalolab.org/blog/). Figured we've give them
a shout out while we're at it.

[placehold for eventual **Rochester Makerspace** logo]

Last, but hopefully not least, the most recent big news is a
much-anticipated step for the
[group](http://www.rochestermakerspace.org/) calling themselves
Rochester Makerspace. They've rented a space a little north of downtown,
on St. Paul Street. Just Tuesday they had [a get-together with
pizza](http://www.rochestermakerspace.org/tuesday-meeting-reminder-pizza-0205/)
at the new location.

Though the planning for this new space has been careful and deliberate,
ongoing since at least this last summer, they now are moving towards
ambitious goals to grow fast. I continue eagerly to await the opening of
another maker-friendly space in Rochester, expected some time in March.
