Pencil Plotting
===============

date
:   2012-02-24 13:55

author
:   interlockroc

category
:   Uncategorized

slug
:   pencil-plotting

status
:   published

[![HP 7580B
Plotter](http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7039/6779641670_10a2d081e1_z.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/bert_m_b/6779641670/)

Oops. We've got another pen plotter at Interlock.

[![HP 7580B
Plotter](http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7039/6779641670_10a2d081e1_z.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/bert_m_b/6779641670/)

I [mentioned before](http://interlockroc.org/2011/09/13/plottopotamus/)
that I've been tinkering with said plotters and webcams and some minimal
computer vision noodling. Eventually, I'd like to implement some of my
own software (likely using [Processing](http://processing.org/)) to do
some more in-depth sketchy-yet-robotic drawings.

As such, I had been trying to think of easy/cheap ways to get a pencil
working on the device. A normal pencil will only get so far before it
needs sharpening, and none of my plotters have yet become talented
enough to lumber over to the pencil sharpener. Soo...

[![Pencil
Plotter](http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7187/6925751889_d17b938b7c_z.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/bert_m_b/6925751889/)

Tada! Did you know they make mechanical pencils that auto-advance their
lead? I didn't, until this was mentioned on [a mailing
list](http://music.columbia.edu/mailman/listinfo/chiplotle-discuss) I'm
on for discussing the
[Chiplotle](http://music.columbia.edu/cmc/chiplotle/) python plotter
library (and plotters in general).

A quick Amazon Prime-ing of the [BIC AI mechanical
pencil](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002I6ZM20) and away we go. I
stuck it into a hollowed out plotter pen, as demonstrated above, and it
seemed to work fine and auto-advance the lead whenever necessary. Sweet.

[![Pencil
Plotter](http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7187/6925751889_d17b938b7c_z.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/bert_m_b/6925751889/)

So for the two of you out there interested in pen plotters, now you
know. For the rest of you, maybe you've got an
[Eggbot](http://egg-bot.com/) or a [Makerbot
Unicorn](http://store.makerbot.com/toolheads/makerbot-unicorn-pen-plotter-kit.html)
or some cool sort of [homebrewed
plotter](http://interlockroc.org/2011/10/30/barcamp-rochester/)... go
get it running with some genuine [STRIKEOUT:100% lead] [mixture of
graphite with clay binder](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pencil). And if
you're into drawing and/or robots and/or software, you should stop in
and play with the plotters someday. I'll get you started, so bring in
some vector artwork, and maybe some paper, and we'll see what happens!
