recycled paper origami
======================

date
:   2012-01-22 13:50

author
:   dzho

category
:   Uncategorized

slug
:   recycled-paper-origami

status
:   published

[caption id="" align="alignnone" width="640" caption="Giftmas origami
balloons made out of wrapping
paper."]![image0](http://getfile9.posterous.com/getfile/files.posterous.com/deejoe/J52wvDSTq7S7jshVl7HWumHETwq5Q135hryL0cT0UDbDCBr5HKZmjaylhNZA/131-giftmas.jpg)[/caption]

One way I kept on an even keel during the recent holiday season was by
taking every opportunity I could to practice making these [origami
cubical
"balloons"](http://www.en.origami-club.com/fun/balloon/ballon/index.html)
using scraps of wrapping paper. I made in excess of a dozen, and that
was the high point of my recent kick to practice enough to be able to do
this pattern from memory.

From a maker-theory perspective, even with the digital revolution and
the move to e-texts to replace things, like books, that have
traditionally used paper, paper as a material is still ubiquitous and
cheap. Its ready availability means that one can cultivate the maker
state of mind just about any where--I started out on this recent origami
journey after lunch one day a couple of months ago, using the
coated-paper basket liner at a burrito place.

Paper fast-food tray liners and place mats do pretty well in a pinch,
and making something then and there is a great way to entertain a
youngster or to open a discussion with an indulgent friend, co-worker,
or even a stranger, about the fun to be had as a hacker and maker.

Amongst different types of paper, paper sold as "origami paper" can be a
little more hard to find and more expensive. I also try to resist that
tendency projects have to lead off with "first, go out and buy
something". So I set out to figure out [a way consistently to convert
randomly-shaped scraps of
paper](http://deejoe.posterous.com/recycled-paper-origami) into squares
suitable for use with traditional origami patterns.

More recently, at my last turn on door duty for Interlock's "Do Night" I
worked on expanding my repertoire a little bit, learning how to make
these
[open-topped](http://www.en.origami-club.com/traditional/box2/box2/index.html)
[boxes.](http://www.en.origami-club.com/traditional/candybox/candybox/index.html)
Also, Reggie was a pretty ggod sport about taking some instruction from
me about how to fold up his own balloon made from wrapping paper I
pushed on him.

So far, I'm not that enthused about making little animals. Also, I had
my paper airplane phase as a kid, so that doesn't hold a lot of appeal
for me at the moment. Mostly, pure geometry, as in the balloon-cubes,
and potentially useful knick-knacks, like the candy box, are what I've
been after. With the holidays gone, my interest may fade for a bit.
We'll see.
