3D Printing a Twisty Puzzle
===========================

date
:   2012-05-16 16:05

author
:   BleuLlama

category
:   Projects

tags
:   3d printer, projects, puzzles, toys

slug
:   twistypuzzle

status
:   published

I've been getting into twisty puzzles recently.  Mainly Rubik's cubes,
as well as cubes and puzzles by other companies and designers like
WitEden, Mefferts, TomZ, and so on.  While looking around, I noticed a
few designers are printing one-offs via
[Shapeways](http://shapeways.com), and other designers are offering
their puzzles through [Thingiverse](http://thingiverse.com).  I've been
wanting to make a 1x2x3 puzzle for a while, probably [making one my own
from spare parts](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pPeiQKmoaUc), but I
happened to see a couple of 1x2x3 designs available on Thingiverse...

Very shortly after Brian, Alex, and Bill got Interlock's 3D printer
going, I nudged my way in, and got them to print out a twisty puzzle for
me. The puzzle I had printed was [this screwless 1x2x3
model](http://www.thingiverse.com/thing:3737).

[![image0](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/11-300x224.jpg)](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/11.jpg)

I decided to go for this one becuase I wanted to have it printed out and
ready to go as qucickly as possible.  In retrospect, I should have gone
for [TomZ's 1x2x3 design](http://www.thingiverse.com/thing:2412), for
reasons I'll get to later.  Anyway... on to the printing!

[![image1](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/15-300x224.jpg)](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/15.jpg)

 

The printer did a great job of producing the pieces, although it would
seem that perhaps the filament was being fed into the printer too
quickly, as tolerances were overshot, and much sanding needed to be
performed just to get it to fit together...

[![image2](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/21-300x224.jpg)](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/21.jpg)

This design included a "barbell" shaped piece that snapped between the
two halves of the core, eliminating the need for screws and springs to
hold it together and give it tension. Because of the lack of support
material, the printer had a difficult time properly printing out this
barbell, as you can see in the following picture.  There was nothing to
hold it in place, so it got dragged around a bit as the print head moved
around.

[![image3](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/40-300x224.jpg)](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/40.jpg)

The next step I took was to sand down the parts to get them to fit. The
first thing I tried was sanding the 'feet' that protrude from the wing
pieces. I was getting decent results, but then realized that a better
solution was to sand the semicircular holes in the cores a bit more,
opening them up, making the feet spin in the core more easily.

[![image4](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/41-300x224.jpg)](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/41.jpg)

Between various nights of heading to Interlock to work on this, and
without the needed barbell piece, I held it together with a rubber band.

[![image5](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/44-300x224.jpg)](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/44.jpg)

Next, Joe came to my rescue.  He extracted the barbell piece out of the
STL file, sliced it in half, then printed those two halves for me.  This
time using the stylish metallic gray filament, rather than the stylish
orange filament.

[![image6](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/50-300x224.jpg)](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/50.jpg)[![image7](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/53-300x224.jpg)](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/53.jpg)

A little bit of super glue, and a little bit of sanding, and they were
ready to install inside of the twisty puzzle's core.  Within minutes, it
was assembled properly for the first time! The barbell/snap assembly is
a bit loose, and I think that some of the feet were sanded down a little
too much, as there is a lot of play in the fit of the parts.

[![image8](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/55-300x224.jpg)](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/55.jpg)[![image9](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/57-300x224.jpg)](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/57.jpg)

I was planning on perhaps dyeing it, or just sanding more and stickering
it with the expected color scheme (red, orange, green, blue, white,
yellow) but Nick had asked me a little about rotational symmetry of the
puzzle, and a few minutes later, he had stickered it with blue painter's
tape. It was an ingenious solution, as no two pieces are stickered with
the same pattern. (Note that you can also see the floppy tolerances on
the top left piece of the next photo.)

[![image10](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/60-300x224.jpg)](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/60.jpg)

After playing with it for a while, the barbell is definitely the weak
point of the whole thing.  I had sanded it a little to get it to turn
more smoothly, but now it's way too loose.  The wing pieces are a bit
floppy due to sanding.   I think that these two things can easily be
changed for the next print, by first using TomZ's design which can use a
screw to hold it together, and also being more cautious while sanding to
keep everything within decent tolerances.
