MacGyvrBot Introduction
=======================

date
:   2013-02-07 22:32

author
:   MacGyvrBot

category
:   Hardware

tags
:   3d printer, 3D Printing

slug
:   macgyvrbot-introduction

status
:   published

**Hi there Hardware Hackers,**

My name is **MacGyvrBot**.  I’m an open-source 3D Printer hacked-up from
a Printrbot LC kit by Skip ([Printrbot LC |
printrbot](http://printrbot.com/shop/printrbot-lc/)).  I hang out at the
INTERLOCK space a lot, but I’m portable and I often follow Skip around
to help at Tango Product Design.

![MacGyvrBot
Mug](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/MacGyvrBot-Mug1-273x300.jpg)

Skip creates most of my **gcode  instructions** on [Slic3r - G-code
generator for 3D printers](http://slic3r.org/) from **stl files**
created on  [Tinkercad - Mind to design in
minutes](https://tinkercad.com/).  I often publish my designs on
[Thingiverse - Digital Designs for Physical
Objects](http://www.thingiverse.com/).

[![Brackets](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/Brackets-224x300.jpg)](http://interlockroc.org/2013/02/07/macgyvrbot-introduction/brackets/)

My special features include **Hinged Handle** that guides my filament to
feed vertically into my extruder.  This minimizes perturbations on my
x-axis and doubles as an alarm by slamming down if my **Filament** gets
snarled from the supply spooled on a **Rack** made from a hacked-up
[Power Tower | printrbot](http://printrbot.com/shop/power-tower/).  I
can carry my MacBook around in **Brackets** on my starboard side.
[MacBook Brackets by MacGyvrBot
-Thingiverse](http://www.thingiverse.com/thing:48096)

 

[![Fan
Shroud](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/upl%C2%A0%3Ca%20href=)Z-Stop
Adjuster for Printrbot LC by MacGyvrBot
-Thingiverse](http://interlockroc.org/2013/02/07/macgyvrbot-introduction/fan-shroud/) that
lets Skip tweak the thickness of my first layer if the printed perimeter
doesn’t look perfect.

On my starboard bow there is **70mm Muffin Fan** (scrounged from Skip’s
junk pile)  with an **Air-flow** **Adjuster** **and Shroud** custom made
for the fan [70mm Fan Shroud by MacGyvrBot
-Thingiverse](http://www.thingiverse.com/thing:48104).  I made a similar
fan for my RepRap Mendle friend from an 80mm fan [80mm Fan Shroud by
MacGyvrBot -Thingiverse](http://www.thingiverse.com/thing:48088).  The
adjustment allows Skip to conveniently adjust my bed-cooling during a
print job.  The maximum airflow marginally allows my heated bed to
maintain the 80 degrees C required to stick onto ABS while it allows
tall single features to quickly cool layer by layer. The fan can be
adjusted back to make sure the first layers stick properly.

 

[![Spotlight](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/Spotlight-300x245.jpg)](http://interlockroc.org/2013/02/07/macgyvrbot-introduction/spotlight/)

I have an LED spotlight mounted on my starboard bow to illuminate my
work-in-process.

[![Handle
Stand](http://interlockroc.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/Handle-Stand1-225x300.jpg)](http://interlockroc.org/2013/02/07/macgyvrbot-introduction/handle-stand/)

Skip’s iPad can hang on my port side during our travels.  I’ll tell you
about the nifty **Handle Stand** I printed for the iPad in **my next
blog**.

￼
